# Introduction #

The IMAP Response Server is based on the gen\_server behavior and it handles all of the responses for all commands that are processed by the IMAP server. The response server accepts events from the SMTP server, other IMAP clients or other events that happen on the server and queue responses for each client into their own message queue.

This allows for a client to receive messages about a mailbox that the client has selected that may have been generated by another process. Most notably when new messages arrive from the SMTP server the IMAP client changes information about a message.


## imap\_resp Mnesia Table ##

The imap\_resp mnesia table is a ram\_copies table that is based on the imap\_resp{} record. The table is setup as a type of bag to allow for multiple responses that have identical keys.

When an IMAP response server connects to a group a mnesia servers it will look for an existing imap\_resp table and copies it to the local node for faster processing. If no imap\_resp table is found the node will create one. When a node is terminated it removes the copy of the imap\_resp table; if the current node is the last node to hold the imap\_resp table then the entire table is deleted.

### notes ###

The imap\_resp table should have a limit to the number of nodes that will create or join. This should be a setting in the config file that also allows for all servers to still join the table. By default 5 nodes should be able to join and if the setting is set to either infinity or 0 then all nodes will join.

After a limit has been placed on the number of nodes that can join the imap\_resp table there should be a way to notify when there are more nodes in the system and the limit has not been reached. This would happen when one node that had a local copy of the imap\_resp table is removed from service.